JUDY WOODRUFF: Reaction to
the president's announcement
yesterday that the U.S. will
withdraw from the Paris
climate agreement has been
unusually fierce on both sides.
And, today, the White House
stood firmly by his decision.
DONALD TRUMP, President of
the United States: Thank
you very much, everybody.
This is slightly less
controversial than yesterday,
but yesterday was a big
service to this country,
I will tell you.
Thank you very much, everybody.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That was all
the president would say about
his much-awaited announcement.
Earlier in the day, however,
the head of the Environmental
Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt,
delivered an energetic defense.
SCOTT PRUITT, Environmental
Protection Agency Administrator:
We have nothing to be apologetic
about as a country.
We have reduced our
CO2 footprint to levels
of the early 1990s.
And that's been largely
accomplished through innovation
and technology, not government
mandate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Nevertheless,
the announcement has touched off
a chorus of protest both here
in the U.S. and abroad.
From Berlin, German
Chancellor Angela Merkel:
ANGELA MERKEL, German Chancellor
(through translator): The
decision of the U.S. to withdraw
from the Paris climate
agreement is very regrettable,
and I'm expressing
myself in a very reserved
way when I say that.
We in Germany, in Europe and
in the world are now more
determined than ever to pool
all our strength to face one
of the challenges of humankind.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Paris,
France's newly elected
President Emmanuel Macron
offered this appeal
reinforced by
speaking in English.
EMMANUEL MACRON, French
President: To all
scientists, engineers,
entrepreneurs, responsible
citizens who were disappointed
by the decision of the president
of the United States, I want
to say that they will find
in France a second homeland.
I call on them, come
and work here with us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Both leaders said
they wouldn't renegotiate the
deal, as President Trump said
he was prepared to do.
Meanwhile, in Brussels,
officials from China,
the world's largest
emitter of greenhouse
gases, met with European
counterparts and reaffirmed
their commitment.
Support also poured in from
the U.S. corporate world.
More than two dozen
companies, including
oil giant Shell, Apple,
Facebook and Morgan Stanley,
had signed a letter urging
Mr. Trump to stay in the pact.
Separately, General Electric
CEO Jeff Immelt and Tesla
chief Elon Musk argued the move
would cost the U.S. jobs.
Disney's chief, Bob Iger,
joined Musk in resigning
from presidential advisory
committees in protest.
Peabody Energy,one of
the country's largest
coal companies, did
come out in support of
the president's decision.
And Russia's President Vladimir
Putin said continued dialogue
was necessary at an event
moderated by NBC News
anchor Megyn Kelly.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through
translator): Rather
than make noise over it,
we need to create conditions
for mutual work, because if
countries that are big emitters,
like the United States, will
not take part at all, it will
be impossible to negotiate
and sign any kind of agreement.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back at the White
House, the EPA's Pruitt said
the president has made clear
he's willing to work with
anyone on a better deal.
But when pressed on whether Mr.
Trump actually believes that
humans play a role in climate
change, Pruitt
skirted the question.
SCOTT PRUITT: The discussions
the president and I have had
over the last several weeks
have been focused on one
key issue: Is Paris good
or bad for this country?
He determined it was
bad for our country.
It hurt us economically.
It didn't achieve good
environmental outcomes.
And he made the decision
to reject the Paris deal.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, oil
prices tumbled amid speculation
the U.S. withdrawal would
boost domestic oil production,
adding to an already
saturated global supply.
We will put some of the facts
and claims behind climate change
into context right after the
news summary.